Francesco Andreoli: Algeria her inquiry.
Jiri Peinlich: He thinks he thinks. Are you big?
Francesco Andreoli: Good! How he's going?
Nicolas Massart: Hello, Francisco! A luxury!
Francesco Andreoli: Hey, Hey, Jim,
Ameziane Hamlat: You
Jiri Peinlich: it's
Nicolas Massart: I have you?
Fabio Di Fabio: Hello! Good morning!
Fabio Di Fabio: Good evening.
Francesco Andreoli: A number of times when you guys are
Jiri Peinlich: good time. Zone,
Francesco Andreoli: are you good vibes?
Francesco Andreoli: Do we know It's just didn't. Ah,
Francesco Andreoli: Charlie!
Fabio Di Fabio: Ah, Justin is sick. I think
Fabio Di Fabio: he brought that.
Fabio Di Fabio: I think so. So He and the family is six on. Probably
Fabio Di Fabio: it's not working today.
Fabio Di Fabio: See? That is
Fabio Di Fabio: Gary Getty's uh
Fabio Di Fabio: propped zero week. Of course I get automatic.
Fabio Di Fabio: It's.
Fabio Di Fabio: I also read the
Fabio Di Fabio: I brought something on a biscuit that is not joining. I know he's not going to join you, he said, on this code.
Francesco Andreoli: Oh, yeah, I see the message. Now
Francesco Andreoli: that's good. We can make make a one. Uh,
Francesco Andreoli: I would say, sure. But uh, yeah, welcome everybody to the call. Let me just
thank you.
Francesco Andreoli: And if you have any question and ah, I think Ah, general announcement, I put that one year because a couple of weeks ago we there we were the apology global for in Dublin, with Ah, with Matt and keen. Dan was over there. And yeah, I was was a good time. We had also like a boot where we literally I spoke with a bunch of other other ah maintainers, and we also had a good opportunity to fill out different different contact for
Francesco Andreoli: for us to to to see who is actually running a enterprise infrastructure.
Francesco Andreoli: Um! Let's move, I guess, like merge updates. I don't know, like I have always just seen there. But anybody want to give an update or have anything obviously in diverse happens. But I don't know there may be post-merge. Ah, post-merge work also on the basis side
Francesco Andreoli: we need to know.
Fabio Di Fabio: Yeah, I can start then, if anyone else want to add something else soon
Fabio Di Fabio: post-merge. So we did our release
Fabio Di Fabio: on the Fridays last week.
Fabio Di Fabio: To address some of the more
Fabio Di Fabio: annoying back. Also there
Fabio Di Fabio: bugs that were reported by
Fabio Di Fabio: many, user internally and externally like at the midst of the session timeouts
Fabio Di Fabio: and the empty blocks.
Fabio Di Fabio: There probably were also other optimizations related to the performance. For example,
Fabio Di Fabio: I have enough to
Fabio Di Fabio: optimized specifically for this kind of machine,
Fabio Di Fabio: And so this went out on Friday, and
Fabio Di Fabio: we had some good ah feedback on the
Fabio Di Fabio: the reduced number of error for the consensus layer less time out, and
Fabio Di Fabio: also some improvement in the
Fabio Di Fabio: ah
Fabio Di Fabio: at the session that were submitted.
Fabio Di Fabio: Uh, but these, as uh narrower
Fabio Di Fabio: it's
Fabio Di Fabio: an error. Let's say, a memory leak. That was Watson after the
Fabio Di Fabio: uh that cause the memory leak uh add more um
Fabio Di Fabio: three so more variable, and
Fabio Di Fabio: after, let's say some um,
Fabio Di Fabio: usually as
Fabio Di Fabio: to free the memory, but it was not a
Fabio Di Fabio: Of course we do. The memory leak. So after a day we start receiving we
Fabio Di Fabio: report about issue, but by so uh
Fabio Di Fabio: was not responsive, and so we identified um
Fabio Di Fabio: this problem
Fabio Di Fabio: on Sunday morning, you of time, and it
Fabio Di Fabio: so the the the fix for that was already a
Fabio Di Fabio: problem before, and the the Pr. Was not yet a single the unit test. We were not ready to integrate this in the doctrine.
Fabio Di Fabio: Get her
Fabio Di Fabio: during the weekend. The The fix has been finalized, and so we were able to
Fabio Di Fabio: verify that the memory leak, the fix for the memory, leak, work it, and the
Fabio Di Fabio: Erez agmoni and the best reasons were fine after that. So we started to communicate the user which was the problem and how to mitigate it. Not really a good mitigation, because basically they had to start when they had this problem.
Fabio Di Fabio: And so we started thinking about a not fix that we raised it yesterday. But
Fabio Di Fabio: so the dot, for also on the record of many users that were running the snapshot to
Fabio Di Fabio: were giving a good feedback on the fix. So we did that. There is also another
Fabio Di Fabio: Small speaks to make the
Fabio Di Fabio: new option that Asian added for high-speed instances
Fabio Di Fabio: to work
Fabio Di Fabio: also if this specified in the configuration file, and not only on the command line, so it's very small one,
Fabio Di Fabio: and that fix actually has only this two ah fixes, and after the release of dot four this God is much more quiet, and
Fabio Di Fabio: we are not seeing, say,
Fabio Di Fabio: about the that is not responsive. Of course there are still other issue opened
Fabio Di Fabio: more
Fabio Di Fabio: with one hundred percent success like
Fabio Di Fabio: before, like other clients, do so. And we need to improve when that part. This is mainly related to the
Fabio Di Fabio: blocking for times that when they takes more than very few seconds they could go.
Fabio Di Fabio: Course timeouts in the consensus ray. Your client and the consensus are your client.
Fabio Di Fabio: And so this is uh something that can cause uh, i'm missing at the session or at the session. That is not the testing there.
Fabio Di Fabio: The the very last ad since the block is taking too much
Fabio Di Fabio: bought themselves.
Fabio Di Fabio: Um, I don't know if I missed something, please. Uh
Fabio Di Fabio: i'm a jury. Please add something if I miss him,
Fabio Di Fabio: that's all. I think.
Francesco Andreoli: Um, The Member League was also on the weekends right a bunch of messages on that.
Fabio Di Fabio: Yes, it was on the weekend,
Fabio Di Fabio: because it's it to appear after one day
Fabio Di Fabio: it it was dependent on the amount of
Fabio Di Fabio: Java. You reserve it to be so. But usually, after one day
Fabio Di Fabio: users started to complain. So yes,
Francesco Andreoli: okay, cool. Uh, if there are no other uh updates. Uh, I think Matt was starting the call on a discussion proposal. I don't know. Do we know if there are some, or anybody have an idea? If it is a slash? Where
Francesco Andreoli: uh we're maintained? Because I remember, like he pushed um a wiki page. I don't know. Maybe there were some people like having an update on this last week.
Francesco Andreoli: Do not? We just want him for the next time
Francesco Andreoli: a cool um.
Francesco Andreoli: Anybody want to jump on this,
Francesco Andreoli: You know. We I think, concerned about Kit.
Francesco Andreoli: It obsesses she will race, or with the alternative gitlab.
Francesco Andreoli: That's probably a Matt's topic.
Francesco Andreoli: Doesn't look like the next top. It was the Java seventeen migration
Francesco Andreoli: that was awesome. That's it all. I think that was a topic also from that.
Then
Francesco Andreoli: I think something is building the petition miracle certificate out a bit with within Java. I don't know anybody wrote this, or is still in all the
Francesco Andreoli: an old to be permit
Ameziane Hamlat: Many responsive ever exist.
Ameziane Hamlat: I I I think there are some old um.
Ameziane Hamlat: It's not probably all right. Yeah actions and Java Seventeen, for example, are,
Ameziane Hamlat: I think they are already discussed last time. Okay, sounds good. Yeah.
Ameziane Hamlat: And for the also, I guess. Also the Maintainer's definition.
Ameziane Hamlat: She organized non-code contribution.
Francesco Andreoli: Nice. Okay. Cool. So no sounds good. It's definitely like a good point also to uh
Francesco Andreoli: make up. And then in terms of Roadmap Review. Optimistic support. Let's keep. I remember, Nicola, you had a
Francesco Andreoli: You had a comment, not for this, for another topic.
Francesco Andreoli: Do you remember what it
Francesco Andreoli: cathedral,
Nicolas Massart: just like you check. Yeah, It was perhaps discussion on about hot-fixed release processes.
Francesco Andreoli: It's.
Nicolas Massart: Yeah, that's. That's this. You're right, because we had this discussion in the release channel, one on the discord, and because we had some
Nicolas Massart: uh issues agreeing, you know, with each other, Maybe it would be good to
Nicolas Massart: yeah fully state what we can do outside of the regular releases.
Francesco Andreoli: Yes,
Nicolas Massart: yeah, Probably because we we need more people to discuss that than myself.
Francesco Andreoli: Sounds good. Looks like It's a short one today, any other. I don't know discussion. You want to give the team an update or any extra topics.
Francesco Andreoli: You're one. Oh, there you go go for it.
Diego López León: Yeah, I'm: just okay, everybody. I I join a bit later to the to the meeting. But I want to know if there is some plan for the upcoming releases. I mean, if the next one will be of May, or if there is some other code
Diego López León: that fix uh on on queue
Fabio Di Fabio: I
Fabio Di Fabio: We yesterday. Actually, we released it from rain because Dot three was released from me and
Fabio Di Fabio: main there were only
Fabio Di Fabio: they ought to fix. Basically So we simplified, and the release of the full domain. We don't have any current
Fabio Di Fabio: upfix
Fabio Di Fabio: the chat. I don't see any outfix pending, so I think the next one. We
Fabio Di Fabio: Ah, we be by a scheduled
Diego López León: Okay, awesome. And what's the date? I mean, It's like in two weeks from now.
Fabio Di Fabio: Yeah, Usually the the the schedule is. So every two weeks are not wrong. Okay,
Diego López León: he.
Diego López León: So dot five will be of main. Hopefully.
Fabio Di Fabio: Yeah, yeah, I think so. Um.
Fabio Di Fabio: But in any case we can discuss this in the Channel if something different will happen during this time. Frame.
Diego López León: Okay,
thank you.
Francesco Andreoli: How do they?
Francesco Andreoli: Awesome, good guys? It was a short one.
Francesco Andreoli: And yeah
Francesco Andreoli: uh, then i'll chat you next time.
Nicolas Massart: Keep up the good word thing.
Fabio Di Fabio: Thank you, bye, bye, Thank you.